# SQLAlchemy ORM Queries
This project demonstrates how to use the [SQLAlchemy Object Relational Mapper](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/) to create, populate, and query a SQLite database. 

## The SQLite Database
The database includes two tables: puppy, and shelter. The puppy table includes biographical information about various puppies, and the shelter table inclues information regarding the shelters where they reside.

## Files
The project includes five files:

* puppydb_setup.py - This file defines the schema and creates the database
* puppypopulator.py - This file populates the database with rows of dummy data using some nifty functions to randomly generate ages and birthdates. This file was provided by Udacity. Thanks Udacity!
* queries.py - This file contains the query and print functions. This is the file you run to see query results
* puppies.db - This is the SQLite database file, which is generated by puppydb_setup.py
* results.txt - A cut and paste of the results, to give you an idea of what you should see when you run queries.py

## Requirements to Make It Work

* Python 2.7
* SQLite
* SQLAlchemy
* dateutil

This project was written and tested in Ubuntu 16.04, with Python 2.7. For other operating systems, please adapt the instructions accordingly. On Ubuntu, Python and SQLite should already be installed. You'll need to install the SQLAlchemy package and the dateutil module, as well as git, by typing the following at the command line:

`sudo apt-get install python-dateutil python-sqlalchemy git-all`

Once this is done you can clone the repository:

`git clone https://github.com/colecode-ph/sqlalchemy-queries.git`

## How to Make It Work

### The Short Version

Type the following at the command line:

`python queries.py`

You should see something like the output in the results.txt file.

### The Long Version

First delete the puppies.db file and generate a new one:

`rm puppies.db; python puppydb_setup.py`

Then populate the database with some random dummy data:

`python puppypopulator.py`

Then run the query again:

`python queries.py`

This time you should see different results compared to the results.txt file, since you have created and populated the database from scratch with some new random data.
